[Applause]
when i was about three or four years old
i remember my mum reading a story to me
and my two big brothers and i remember
putting up my hands to feel the page of
the book
to feel the picture they were discussing
and my mum said darling remember
that you can't see and you can't
feel the picture and you can't feel the
print
on the page and i thought to myself but
that's what i want to do
i love stories i want to read
computers have changed the lives of us
all in this room and around the world
but i think they've changed the lives of
we blind people
more than any other group i saw my first
apple computer in 1984
and i thought to myself this thing's got
a glass screen
not much use to me
how very wrong i was
in 1987 in the month our eldest son
jared was born
i got my first blind computer and it's
actually here
see it up there and you see it has no
what do you call it no screen
it's a keynote gold 84k and the 84k
stands for it had 84 kilobytes of memory
don't laugh it cost me 4 000 at the time
i think there's more memory in my watch
it meant for the first time i could read
back
what i had typed into it it had a speech
synthesizer this
now allowed me to read back what i'd
written
and to enter the computer world even
with it 84k of memory
in 1974 the great
ray kurzweil the american inventor
worked on building a machine that would
scan books and read them out in
synthetic speech
optical character recognition units then
only operated usually on one
fault but by using charged couple
device flatbed scanners and speech
synthesizers he'd developed a machine
that could read
um any font i saw my first commercially
available
cursor in march 1989 and it blew me away
for the first time i could read what i
wanted to read
by putting a book on the scanner i
didn't have to be nice to people
now the cursor reader is simply a
program on my laptop
that's what it shrunk to and now i can
scan the latest novel and not wait to
get it into talking book libraries
i can keep up with my friends
there are many people who've helped me
in my life and
many that i haven't met one is another
american inventor ted hentner
ted was a motorcycle racer but in 1978
he had a car accident and lost his sight
which is devastating if you're trying to
ride motorbikes
he then he then turned to being a water
skier and was a champion
disabled water skier but in 1989 he
teamed up with bill joyce
to develop a program that would read out
what was on the computer screen from the
net or from what was on the computer
it's called jaws
job access with speech and it sounds
like this
[Music]
isn't that slow you see if i read like
that i'd fall asleep i slowed it down
for you
i'm going to ask that we play it at the
speed i read it can we play that one
[Music]
you know when you're marking student
essays you want to get through them
fairly quickly
this technology that fascinated me in
is now on my iphone and on yours as well
now there are still barriers in front of
wheat people with disabilities many
websites
we can't read using jaws and the other
technologies
websites are often very visual and
they're all these sorts of graphs that
aren't labeled and buttons that aren't
labeled
and that's why the world wide web
consortium three
known as w3c has developed
worldwide standards for the internet
and we want all internet users or
internet
site owners to make their sites
compatible so that we persons without
vision
can have a level playing field i wonder
what the future will hold
the technology will advance even further
but i can still remember my mum saying
60 years ago
remember darling you'll never be able to
read the print with your fingers
i'm so glad that the interaction between
braille
transcribers volunteer readers and
passionate inventors
has allowed this dream of reading to
come true for me
and for blind people throughout the
world i'd like to
thank my researcher hannah martin who is
my slide clicker
who clicks the slides and my wife
professor mary crock who's the light of
my life is coming on to collect me i
want to thank her too
i think i have to say goodbye now bless
you thank you very much
[Applause]
okay okay